So thus far, we're pre-caching in the install step,
now let's say we want to cache dynamically too.
Now for that, we have to go to the fetch listener because dynamic caching means we have a fetch event
anyways and we want to store the response which comes back in our cache.
So to do that, of course we have to respond with something in the end
but the thing we want to respond with in the end could still be fetched from our cache
but if we do make a network request because it's not in the cache yet, we want to make sure that we store
whatever comes back.
So here onto this fetch event, I'll chain another
then call and in case you're wondering why I'm not adding it here in our main promise chain because this
would then also handle this return statement here,
I don't want to do anything if I return a response from cache though,
I only want to do something if I return a response from this fetch request which is why I'm chaining it
directly behind that.
So in there, we have a function where we get a response and I'm naming this res because we already used
response here,
so this is now the response from the actual server and we want to add this response to the cache now
dynamically. We didn't pre-cache it but now that we got it,
why don't we add it?
So what I can do here is I can simply caches call caches and open a new cache and here, I'll name this
dynamic,
the name is totally up to you,
I just want to store it in a separate place, not in our static cache. So I'll name it dynamic here
and in this cache, I now want to store this response. Well nothing easier than that,
let's chain a then call here to caches open and in this function, we get the cache which was opened
or created if it didn't exist yet
and in there, I now want to call cache put.
So this cache we opened, there I want to put a new resource.
Remember that I showed you add and put on this MDN article earlier, add takes a URL, a string,
sends a request and automatically stores the request response key-value pair. Put doesn't do that, put
requires you to provide a request and response key-value pair. So put doesn't send any request,
it just stores data you have.
So the first argument you pass to put is the event request URL, the identifier,
so the request object here, though only the URL by which we identify that request.
The second argument is the response or res is the name here.
Now here's a gotcha,
I want to return the response thereafter of course and therefore I want to return this whole caches
open operation because if I wouldn't return both, then
well what would happen?
We make a network request, we intercept it here, we store it in the cache but we never give the response
back to the HTML file,
so it would fail.
It would succeed on the next time we try it because then it would be in cache but directly loading it
from the network would never work,
so we have to make sure to also return the response and therefore we return this whole operation
so that in our promise chain which we return something which then is returned to the original requester
which is coming from our HTML page or our Javascript files. There is another important thing to watch
out for, the response if we store it here is basically consumed which means it's empty,
this is how responses work,
you can only consume which means use them once and storing them here in the cache uses the response.
So we should call response clone here,
this is the method provided on the response object which does what it sounds like,
it creates a clone.
So we're storing an exact clone which is all we need, it contains all the response data but we're returning
the original response.
Of course we could return a clone and store the original response, that doesn't matter,
just make sure to use clone.
So with that if we now save this, we have a set up where we reach out to the network if we don't find
an item in the cache and then we store it in the cache once we got it and we still return it to the original
requester.
Let's save this and see if it works.
If we go back to our application here, let's reload and go to application, news service worker is
activating,
so let's do this and load again.
Let's try if it now already works,
if we go to offline mode and reload, you see the icons are there because now in the network tab, we see
that even that cryptic icon request is served from the service worker because if we inspect our cache storage
here, refresh it, you see the new dynamic entry and there, you see that the material icon in the end
are stored here too, this request we were missing.
It also stored the San Francisco boat request here and the get request which is why we even see the
card here though that's dynamic content because it fetched it and therefore now when it fails, it
returns both from the cache and can therefore render this because our network request no longer fails,
we just get it from the cache.
If we go to help, this of course fails but if we enable the network again, load this one time and disable it
now, now this page works too because again if we refresh the cache and inspect it, you see the help page
now was added too.
So this is how that works and
now we can even navigate around though we're offline and that is already adding offline capabilities
to our application.
We have no internet access here and still we can use our application, we can navigate around and this
failed.
Now why did this fail? Just for the same reason we had a problem with index.html earlier.
If we inspect our cache here, make sure to do this on a page which actually loads, there we see we store
/help/.
Now the failing page is just /help without a slash,
it's a different request but that's no issue.
It fails in this case
but at some point of time, the user will come back, will navigate around and will navigate to help here
probably with the appropriate URL
and now if we go back to offline mode, you will see that going back here works too now because now both
is stored, /help and /help/.
So we got basic offline functionality
added to our application here.
It seems to work great,
it does have a couple of issues though.
Let's have a look at these and let's see how we can improve our solution over the next lectures.